2020.md, before:

---
layout: page
---

### Ruby by the Bay 2020

[Join us on Slack](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/) before, during, and after the event for announcements, making friends, and details about how to do good virtually while practicing shelter in place. **Remember to please take breaks as needed. The code and your team will be there when you come back <3!**

##### Attendee Agenda

##### {{site.data.constants.dates.start_day}}, {{site.data.constants.dates.start}}

* **[Optional] 2:00 pm Pacific (5:00 pm Eastern)** - Come by and meet your fellow attendees, chat with organizers, begin downloading Docker, get to know all the do gooders, etc. It's a wonderful opportunity to familiarize yourself with each project’s nonprofit and their mission, ask about particular projects, get a sense of technical requirements which might be helpful in making your decision.
* **[Everyone] 5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - Event kickoff! You’ll meet the team leads, learn about the different projects available, and how each team will run. Some teams will be shorter lived (just the weekend) while others may choose to run for the rest of the month. If you think you’ll be getting hungry before 7pm, grab your dinner and eat during this time!
* **6:00 pm Pacific (9:00 pm Eastern)** - If you haven’t already set up your development environmet, hang out in your team’s virtual room and get your that set up. If you have it set up, you can help a teammate get theirs set up. If you’re getting a little hangry, go grab your dinner and eat while setting up your dev env.
* **7:00 pm Pacific (10:00 pm Eastern)** - Dinner and bedtime on your own.

##### Saturday, April 4th

* **8:00 am Pacific (11:00 am Eastern)** - Mealtime social! West coasters, grab your coffee. East coasters, grab your early lunch.
* **9:00 am Pacific (12:00 pm Eastern)** - Work on projects!
* **12:30 pm Pacific (3:30 pm Eastern)** - Mealtime retro! West coasters, grab your lunch. East coasters, make a cuppa your favorite beverage. Each team will check in on how the virtual event is going, and what could be changed to make it better.
* **1:30 pm Pacific (4:30 pm Easterm)** - Schedule to be set by each team, but probably work on projects! East coasters, if you gotta drop for dinner/family time, please do that <3
* **5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - This is the end of scheduled time for this day.

##### {{site.data.constants.dates.end_day}}, {{site.data.constants.dates.end}}

* **8:00 am Pacific (11:00 am Eastern)** - Schedule to be set by each team
* **[Everyone] 5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - We’ll share demos and a quick retro for how the virtual event went and what we could do to improve! If the project is not finished, demo what you can!
* **6:00 pm Pacific (9:00 pm Eastern)** - This is the end of scheduled time for event.

##### Ongoing

With the pivot to virtual event for 2020, some teams might be participating throughout the month of April. You can look for your project's duration in our [event README](https://github.com/rubyforgood/2020-Remote/blob/master/README.md).

### Location

Our venue this year is {{site.data.constants.venue_name}}.
In the meantime, [join us on Slack](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/)!

Commit message:

Adds ruby by the bay google calendar link to schedule

2020.md, after:

---
layout: page
---

### Ruby by the Bay 2020

[Join us on Slack](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/) before, during, and after the event for announcements, making friends, and details about how to do good virtually while practicing shelter in place. **Remember to please take breaks as needed. The code and your team will be there when you come back <3!**

If you want to add Ruby by the Bay 2020 calendar with the slots to your personal calendar, you can do so [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=MmozaGhwYjF0bjFsZXNtcjZrb2hmYXMwaWtAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ).

##### Attendee Agenda

##### {{site.data.constants.dates.start_day}}, {{site.data.constants.dates.start}}

* **[Optional] 2:00 pm Pacific (5:00 pm Eastern)** - Come by and meet your fellow attendees, chat with organizers, begin downloading Docker, get to know all the do gooders, etc. It's a wonderful opportunity to familiarize yourself with each project’s nonprofit and their mission, ask about particular projects, get a sense of technical requirements which might be helpful in making your decision.
* **[Everyone] 5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - Event kickoff! You’ll meet the team leads, learn about the different projects available, and how each team will run. Some teams will be shorter lived (just the weekend) while others may choose to run for the rest of the month. If you think you’ll be getting hungry before 7pm, grab your dinner and eat during this time!
* **6:00 pm Pacific (9:00 pm Eastern)** - If you haven’t already set up your development environmet, hang out in your team’s virtual room and get your that set up. If you have it set up, you can help a teammate get theirs set up. If you’re getting a little hangry, go grab your dinner and eat while setting up your dev env.
* **7:00 pm Pacific (10:00 pm Eastern)** - Dinner and bedtime on your own.

##### Saturday, April 4th

* **8:00 am Pacific (11:00 am Eastern)** - Mealtime social! West coasters, grab your coffee. East coasters, grab your early lunch.
* **9:00 am Pacific (12:00 pm Eastern)** - Work on projects!
* **12:30 pm Pacific (3:30 pm Eastern)** - Mealtime retro! West coasters, grab your lunch. East coasters, make a cuppa your favorite beverage. Each team will check in on how the virtual event is going, and what could be changed to make it better.
* **1:30 pm Pacific (4:30 pm Easterm)** - Schedule to be set by each team, but probably work on projects! East coasters, if you gotta drop for dinner/family time, please do that <3
* **5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - This is the end of scheduled time for this day.

##### {{site.data.constants.dates.end_day}}, {{site.data.constants.dates.end}}

* **8:00 am Pacific (11:00 am Eastern)** - Schedule to be set by each team
* **[Everyone] 5:00 pm Pacific (8:00 pm Eastern)** - We’ll share demos and a quick retro for how the virtual event went and what we could do to improve! If the project is not finished, demo what you can!
* **6:00 pm Pacific (9:00 pm Eastern)** - This is the end of scheduled time for event.

##### Ongoing

With the pivot to virtual event for 2020, some teams might be participating throughout the month of April. You can look for your project's duration in our [event README](https://github.com/rubyforgood/2020-Remote/blob/master/README.md).

### Location

Our venue this year is {{site.data.constants.venue_name}}.
In the meantime, [join us on Slack](https://rubyforgood.herokuapp.com/)!
