faq.md, before:

---
layout: page
---

### FAQ:

##### What is Ruby by the Bay?

Ruby by the Bay is the west coast edition of Ruby for Good.

##### What is Ruby for Good?

Ruby for Good is an annual event based out of the DC-metro area where Ruby programmers from all over the globe get together over a long weekend to build projects that help our communities. Think hanging out in communal space for a weekend with a bunch of developers and designers to build something useful. Participants stay in on-site dorms; hacking and socializing takes place in communal areas. Join us just for the fun of giving back! Questions? Check out the FAQ below or drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### Why was Ruby for Good started?

Lots of organizations need the sort of technical help we can provide but are unable to afford it. We want to be the do-gooders that volunteer to solve non-profit business/technical problems. Very little effort on our part can make a huge difference to a non-profit. We want to help!

##### Why Ruby by the Bay?

Several of our projects could benefit from a weekend worth of gooding more than once a year and we'd like to bring the Ruby for Good experience to more people more places.

##### What skill level do I need to be to attend?

All experience levels are definitely welcome! We have a wide variety of skill levels ranging from those who have next to no experience, all the way up to very senior people who work at places like Github and LivingSocial. The event is as much about learning as it is about building great things. Groups are very collaborative and you'll definitely have the opportunity to work closely with others and push a lot of code. :)

##### Do I need to be a programmer?

We need both developers and designers at Ruby by the Bay.

##### Do I need to be a Ruby programmer?

You don't HAVE to be a Ruby programmer but it does help. We're more than happy to welcome programmers of other languages, especially if you're interested in learning some Ruby. :)  Sometimes we may have projects that use JavaScript or dev ops tools.

##### How do you choose projects?

A lot of cold-calling/emailing individuals and organizations, soliciting suggestions from people we know, and from YOU in the community. We go through a process of vetting possible projects and select based on viability of completion, need, open-source status, and general impact on business functions.

##### What's an appropriate project?

Good projects can be completed in about a weekend, help improve the efficiency of a non-profit, and are open-source so we can help give back to the community. Have the beginnings of an idea? <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>

##### How do I suggest a project?

Have a project you're jonesing to work on? <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>

##### What ARE the projects this year?

This year projects are focused around issues facing our local communities and we have some great organizations lined up! We'll announce project details, including available teams to join, around the beginning of February after registration closes.

##### I want to lead a team. What do I do?

During registration we'll ask if you'd like to lead a team - say yes! We'll be in touch in mid-to-late January with potential projects. We'll brief you on expectations and put you in touch with your non-profit so you can work with them in advance of the event to set up project requirements, milestones and initial set up so you can hit the ground running with your team at Ruby by the Bay. Setup includes creating a github repo under the Ruby for Good github, filing issues and making some technology suggestions. [You can read about the team lead process here](/team-leads).

##### I don't know if I want to lead a team. What do I do?

In general, leading a team entails connecting with stakeholders, initial architecting, planning out project milestones, and keeping your team moving forward. Here's more <a href="http://www.blrice.net/blog/2014/08/09/lessons-learned-at-ruby-for-good/">information</a> about leading a team from Brandon Rice, a team lead in 2015 (who was SUPER awesome. Just sayin'.). Still not sure and want to talk about it with an organizer? Drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### Do you allow remote teams at Ruby by the Bay or Ruby for Good?

Unfortunately we're unable to accommodate remote teams this time around.

##### How can I help?!

* Suggest a project - We always need worthy projects! We've compiled a google doc to help you figure out a project. <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>
* Lead a team - a great way to up your skills, especially if you've been programming for a while and are eager for the experience of leading a team.
* Donations/Sponsors - we need lots of help with fundraising. The long weekend experience is expensive and we'd like to offer tickets to the wonderful folks who volunteer for as little as possible. This is only possible with donations and sponsors! Reach out to your employers to see if they would be willing to help us give back to our community. :)
* Attendees - we need both developer and designer expertise!

##### Is this a hackathon?

No. This is definitely not a hackathon. Sean cringes everytime someone mentions 'hackathon' and 'Ruby for Good' in the same sentence. (Try it.)

##### When do I need to purchase my tickets?

By February 1 or when we sell out, whichever comes first!

##### Oops, I bought my ticket and now I can't go. Will you please refund/transfer?

After January 1 we will be unable to offer refunds but we will happily help coordinate exchanges until February 15. Drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### I’m, or want to host, an out-of-towner…

Welcome! We’d love to have any out-of-towners arrive early. If you want to be a tourist for a few days, we’ll find you somewhere to stay while you are here! If you are a local and have some extra space in your house for a Gooder to cozy up, either ping an organizer or join the #housing channel on slack.

##### Which airport should I fly into?

The best airport is probably San Francisco International Airport (SFO), but if you are coming early we suggest coordinating with your host—they may live closer to a different airport (such as OAK). Both are within an hour's
drive to the venue.

##### Where do I park?

We’re still working with the venue and will let everyone know as soon as we do.

##### Can we drink alcohol?

Assuming you are of age, you are welcome to partake of fermented beverages. We do encourage moderation and require compliance with our [Code of Conduct](/coc) at all times.

##### What fun extra stuff do you have planned?

Anyone who has attended in the past knows that we do some really fun stuff when we’re not working hard helping the nonprofits; hikes, meditation sessions, dance class, and more. We’ve volun-told Casey (begged) to teach dancing again this year and in reverting back to childhood, Aaron is planning on doing some fun adult coloring and we’ve heard that there may even be some fun Ruby by the Bay themed coloring books too! If you have an idea for something you’d like to do or lead, jump into the #evening-fun channel on slack! Don’t worry, we’ll still have plenty of time for karaoke, werewolf, and the other standbys!

Note: the site is an active research facility, and has restrictions on where you can walk around. Please follow our hosts' instructions on where you wander!

##### What do I do if I find a baby seal or otter?

*Don't touch it. Leave it alone.* Its mother is probably out gathering food, and both animals will be very upset if you touch the animal. Please stay at least 20 feet away from wildlife.

##### What does my registration go toward?

The event costs money to put on. We try to raise as much as possible through sponsorships and donations but so far this amount has been unable to cover the cost of venue, food, shirts, transportation, and other minutia. By charging a little, we're able to break even for the event.

##### When do tickets go on sale?

TBA! Join our mailing list and follow us on Twitter.

##### Do I really HAVE to get there by 5pm on Thursday?

Yeah, you really do. Teams will be chosen right around that time and you'll spend dinner meeting with your team, chatting about your projects, and getting your environments aligned. We've found the event is most successful, with the most buy-in, when teams are a cohesive bunch from the beginning.

##### How early can I arrive on Thursday?

Most of the organizing team is planning on arriving at 12pm but feel free to beat us there!

##### How does food work?

All food is provided, you just need to bring yourself! We'll even provide snacks in the evenings when we're all socializing/playing games/werewolf!

##### I'm a vegetarian/dairy-free/vegan/gluten-free/paleo/allergic to... will you feed me?

Absolutely.

##### What's it REALLY like at Ruby by the Bay?

So glad you asked! For expert insight, here are a couple of blog posts written up by past Ruby for Good attendees:

* http://alwaysbelearning.co/2014/08/05/ruby-for-good/
* http://www.blrice.net/blog/2014/08/09/lessons-learned-at-ruby-for-good/
* http://rolentle.com/ruby-for-good/

##### Do you have scholarships?

We have a limited number of scholarship tickets but are unable to provide transportation funds. Criteria for selection includes the ability to get to the SF bay area on your own and a brief application form. We will announce when scholarship applications may be submitted.
<!-- Apply for a scholarship [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1M3PJepMOZcqUcIN81Ju7YEeXpQKhYWnSWnmgeZTX33w/viewform#start=openform). -->

##### What do I need to bring?

Bring yourself, your laptop, a power source, some clothes, bedsheets and your favorite board games. Historically weather has been between 40-70°F, so please bring clothes appropriate for the weather. If you anticipate skipping group meals, bring some munchies. If you're a light sleeper, bring earplugs.

##### How do I get there?

We will collect information about carpooling at and after registration.
<!-- We are collecting information about carpooling [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nq7XrtqABpowMnNPPVbcRShYPwgfveUjF4TZu5CdCIU/edit). Please fill out the form if you need a ride or can offer a ride and Kalimar will do his best to match people up! Contact Kalimar at kalimar@rubyforgood.org.  -->
We will also be coordinating further in the #carpool channel in slack.

##### How do I indicate I want to room with my friend/significant other?

During registration we ask if there's anything else you'd like us to know - indicate in this section who you'd like to room with and we'll make it happen. Make sure both parties indicate bilateral interest.

##### How do room assignments work?

Lodging is in bunkhouses. You may choose to be assigned to an all-gender, all-male, or all-female bunkhouse at registration.

##### Do you have a code of conduct?

We are proud to have a <a href="/coc">code of conduct</a>.

##### Is this the first year of Ruby by the Bay?

Yes! and we hope you can join us in the inaugural event!

Commit message:

Date updates, add in scholarship link

faq.md, after:

---
layout: page
---

### FAQ:

##### What is Ruby by the Bay?

Ruby by the Bay is the west coast edition of Ruby for Good.

##### What is Ruby for Good?

Ruby for Good is an annual event based out of the DC-metro area where Ruby programmers from all over the globe get together over a long weekend to build projects that help our communities. Think hanging out in communal space for a weekend with a bunch of developers and designers to build something useful. Participants stay in on-site dorms; hacking and socializing takes place in communal areas. Join us just for the fun of giving back! Questions? Check out the FAQ below or drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### Why was Ruby for Good started?

Lots of organizations need the sort of technical help we can provide but are unable to afford it. We want to be the do-gooders that volunteer to solve non-profit business/technical problems. Very little effort on our part can make a huge difference to a non-profit. We want to help!

##### Why Ruby by the Bay?

Several of our projects could benefit from a weekend worth of gooding more than once a year and we'd like to bring the Ruby for Good experience to more people more places.

##### What skill level do I need to be to attend?

All experience levels are definitely welcome! We have a wide variety of skill levels ranging from those who have next to no experience, all the way up to very senior people who work at places like Github and LivingSocial. The event is as much about learning as it is about building great things. Groups are very collaborative and you'll definitely have the opportunity to work closely with others and push a lot of code. :)

##### Do I need to be a programmer?

We need both developers and designers at Ruby by the Bay.

##### Do I need to be a Ruby programmer?

You don't HAVE to be a Ruby programmer but it does help. We're more than happy to welcome programmers of other languages, especially if you're interested in learning some Ruby. :)  Sometimes we may have projects that use JavaScript or dev ops tools.

##### How do you choose projects?

A lot of cold-calling/emailing individuals and organizations, soliciting suggestions from people we know, and from YOU in the community. We go through a process of vetting possible projects and select based on viability of completion, need, open-source status, and general impact on business functions.

##### What's an appropriate project?

Good projects can be completed in about a weekend, help improve the efficiency of a non-profit, and are open-source so we can help give back to the community. Have the beginnings of an idea? <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>

##### How do I suggest a project?

Have a project you're jonesing to work on? <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>

##### What ARE the projects this year?

This year projects are focused around issues facing our local communities and we have some great organizations lined up! We'll announce project details, including available teams to join, around the beginning of February after registration closes.

##### I want to lead a team. What do I do?

During registration we'll ask if you'd like to lead a team - say yes! We'll be in touch in mid-to-late January with potential projects. We'll brief you on expectations and put you in touch with your non-profit so you can work with them in advance of the event to set up project requirements, milestones and initial set up so you can hit the ground running with your team at Ruby by the Bay. Setup includes creating a github repo under the Ruby for Good github, filing issues and making some technology suggestions. [You can read about the team lead process here](/team-leads).

##### I don't know if I want to lead a team. What do I do?

In general, leading a team entails connecting with stakeholders, initial architecting, planning out project milestones, and keeping your team moving forward. Here's more <a href="http://www.blrice.net/blog/2014/08/09/lessons-learned-at-ruby-for-good/">information</a> about leading a team from Brandon Rice, a team lead in 2015 (who was SUPER awesome. Just sayin'.). Still not sure and want to talk about it with an organizer? Drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### Do you allow remote teams at Ruby by the Bay or Ruby for Good?

Unfortunately we're unable to accommodate remote teams this time around.

##### How can I help?!

* Suggest a project - We always need worthy projects! We've compiled a google doc to help you figure out a project. <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1xuidYh1I-AEPSUH5n9y4h9E3csmQthNDYIOvmqVgt_Y/viewform"><i class="fa fa-heart-o fa-1x"></i>Suggest a project!</a>
* Lead a team - a great way to up your skills, especially if you've been programming for a while and are eager for the experience of leading a team.
* Donations/Sponsors - we need lots of help with fundraising. The long weekend experience is expensive and we'd like to offer tickets to the wonderful folks who volunteer for as little as possible. This is only possible with donations and sponsors! Reach out to your employers to see if they would be willing to help us give back to our community. :)
* Attendees - we need both developer and designer expertise!

##### Is this a hackathon?

No. This is definitely not a hackathon. Sean cringes everytime someone mentions 'hackathon' and 'Ruby for Good' in the same sentence. (Try it.)

##### When do I need to purchase my tickets?

By February 1 or when we sell out, whichever comes first!

##### Oops, I bought my ticket and now I can't go. Will you please refund/transfer?

After January 1 we will be unable to offer refunds but we will happily help coordinate exchanges until February 15. Drop us a <a href="mailto:{{ site.data.constants.contact_email }}">note</a>.

##### I’m, or want to host, an out-of-towner…

Welcome! We’d love to have any out-of-towners arrive early. If you want to be a tourist for a few days, we’ll find you somewhere to stay while you are here! If you are a local and have some extra space in your house for a Gooder to cozy up, either ping an organizer or join the #housing channel on slack.

##### Which airport should I fly into?

The best airport is probably San Francisco International Airport (SFO), but if you are coming early we suggest coordinating with your host—they may live closer to a different airport (such as OAK). Both are within an hour's
drive to the venue.

##### Where do I park?

We’re still working with the venue and will let everyone know as soon as we do.

##### Can we drink alcohol?

Assuming you are of age, you are welcome to partake of fermented beverages. We do encourage moderation and require compliance with our [Code of Conduct](/coc) at all times.

##### What fun extra stuff do you have planned?

Anyone who has attended in the past knows that we do some really fun stuff when we’re not working hard helping the nonprofits; hikes, meditation sessions, dance class, and more. We’ve volun-told Casey (begged) to teach dancing again this year and in reverting back to childhood, Aaron is planning on doing some fun adult coloring and we’ve heard that there may even be some fun Ruby by the Bay themed coloring books too! If you have an idea for something you’d like to do or lead, jump into the #evening-fun channel on slack! Don’t worry, we’ll still have plenty of time for karaoke, werewolf, and the other standbys!

Note: the site is an active research facility, and has restrictions on where you can walk around. Please follow our hosts' instructions on where you wander!

##### What do I do if I find a baby seal or otter?

*Don't touch it. Leave it alone.* Its mother is probably out gathering food, and both animals will be very upset if you touch the animal. Please stay at least 20 feet away from wildlife.

##### What does my registration go toward?

The event costs money to put on. We try to raise as much as possible through sponsorships and donations but so far this amount has been unable to cover the cost of venue, food, shirts, transportation, and other minutia. By charging a little, we're able to break even for the event.

##### When do tickets go on sale?

TBA! Join our mailing list and follow us on Twitter.

##### Do I really HAVE to get there by 5pm on Friday?

Yeah, you really do. Teams will be chosen right around that time and you'll spend dinner meeting with your team, chatting about your projects, and getting your environments aligned. We've found the event is most successful, with the most buy-in, when teams are a cohesive bunch from the beginning.

##### How early can I arrive on Friday?

Most of the organizing team is planning on arriving at 12pm but feel free to beat us there! There will be other, non gooder folks, on site so we'll need to stay out of their way!

##### How does food work?

All food is provided, you just need to bring yourself! We'll even provide snacks in the evenings when we're all socializing/playing games/werewolf!

##### I'm a vegetarian/dairy-free/vegan/gluten-free/paleo/allergic to... will you feed me?

Absolutely.

##### What's it REALLY like at Ruby by the Bay?

So glad you asked! For expert insight, here are a couple of blog posts written up by past Ruby for Good attendees:

* http://alwaysbelearning.co/2014/08/05/ruby-for-good/
* http://www.blrice.net/blog/2014/08/09/lessons-learned-at-ruby-for-good/
* http://rolentle.com/ruby-for-good/
* https://blog.homesnap.com/homesnap-terrastories-ruby-hack-thon
* https://blog.mapbox.com/ruby-for-good-2018-61dd45a7fdb7
* https://www.amazonteam.org/act-partakes-in-ruby-for-good-2018-to-develop-offline-geostorytelling-app-terrastories-for-remote-communities/


##### Do you have scholarships?

We have a limited number of scholarship tickets but are unable to provide transportation funds. Criteria for selection includes the ability to get to the SF bay area on your own and a brief application form. We will announce when scholarship applications may be submitted.
Apply for a scholarship [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc0c4aKi6hNu3x4aj01ivypoGfXXtswAstMtc4fcyGbOLPG7w/viewform).

##### What do I need to bring?

Bring yourself, your laptop, a power source, some clothes, pillow, sleeping bag, and your favorite board games. Historically weather has been between 40-70°F, so please bring clothes appropriate for the weather. If you anticipate skipping group meals, bring some munchies. If you're a light sleeper, bring earplugs.

##### How do I get there?

We will collect information about carpooling at and after registration.
<!-- We are collecting information about carpooling [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nq7XrtqABpowMnNPPVbcRShYPwgfveUjF4TZu5CdCIU/edit). Please fill out the form if you need a ride or can offer a ride and Kalimar will do his best to match people up! Contact Kalimar at kalimar@rubyforgood.org.  -->
We will also be coordinating further in the #carpool channel in slack.

##### How do I indicate I want to room with my friend/significant other?

During registration we ask if there's anything else you'd like us to know - indicate in this section who you'd like to room with and we'll make it happen. Make sure both parties indicate bilateral interest.

##### How do room assignments work?

Lodging is in bunkhouses. You may choose to be assigned to an all-gender, all-male, or all-female bunkhouse at registration.

##### Do you have a code of conduct?

We are proud to have a <a href="/coc">code of conduct</a>.

##### Is this the first year of Ruby by the Bay?

Yes! and we hope you can join us in the inaugural event!
