naturebridge.md, before:

---
layout: page
---

### Venue information

2019 Ruby by the Bay will be held March 28 - April 1 (Friday - Monday) at NatureBridge in Sausalito, California.

![Aerial photo of venue next to the ocean](/images/naturebridge_from_above.jpg "Aerial photo of venue next to the ocean"){:class="img-responsive"}

###### What is this beautiful place??

![Photo of NatureBridge signage in front of some of their buildings](/images/naturebridge_sign.jpg "Photo of NatureBridge signage in front of some of their buildings"){:class="img-responsive"}

NatureBridge is a nonprofit that focuses on educating kids about the environment. They have school groups during the school year, and run day camps during the summers.

###### Seriously how is it this beautiful??

NatureBridge is lucky enough to lease their space from the National Park Service. It's housed in Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The campus was originally created by the Army.

###### What will sleeping arrangements be like?

We have four bunkhouses:

- Non-binary people
- Women's
- Men's
- All genders

All bunkhouses have shockingly clean bathrooms attached. Toilets are in stalls and showers have curtains. Some of the spaces may have (coin-operated) laundry available.

The bunkhouses have hot water and are heated.

![Photo showing off view of the lagoon from the bunks](/images/naturebridge_bunks_and_view.jpg "Photo showing off view of the lagoon from the bunks"){:class="img-responsive"}

Many of the bunks have fantastic views of the outdoors!

**Important note:** The beautiful outdoors includes raccoons which love to break in and steal your food. Please talk with the organizers before bringing any food into the bunkhouse.

We'll provide a bucket of earplugs, though please feel free to bring your own.

There is a small medicines-only fridge available; please talk with the organizers if you need access.

###### How about dining?

![Photo of inside of dining hall. Buffet and several tables.](/images/naturebridge_dining_hall.jpg "Photo of inside of dining hall. Buffet and several tables."){:class="img-responsive"}

Most meals will take place in the large dining hall. Most of the meals are buffet-style. There are many small-group tables and chairs. We'll be sharing the dining hall (and the venue) with one other organization during Ruby by the Bay.

The dining hall includes a small alcove inside if you'd like to be in a slightly more isolated space. Or consider taking your meal on their terrace?

![Photo of dining hall terrace](/images/naturebridge_dining_terrace.jpg "Photo of dining hall terrace"){:class="img-responsive"}

Note: we will not have access to the dining hall outside of mealtimes.

###### Where will we be when we are not sleeping?

We'll be using a few function spaces very close to each other around the small campus. While some of the spaces have single-gendered bathrooms, many of the spaces have all-gender bathrooms.

If you and/or your pair would like to get away, you can always check if wifi will reach some of the outdoor seating spaces!

![Photo of several seats made of stumps in a ring](/images/naturebridge_stump_circle.jpg "Photo of several seats made of stumps in a ring"){:class="img-responsive"}

![Photo of picnic benches overlooking the lagoon](/images/naturebridge_picnic_benches_above_lagoon.jpg "Photo of picnic benches overlooking the lagoon"){:class="img-responsive"}

After dinner, set the coding aside for a little while and get to know your fellow gooders! Use the basketball or volleyball court, play board games, sing karaoke, or pull up a seat at the firering (no promises there won't be a rousing game of Werewolf happening by the fire though!). Have another idea for a fun activity? Bring it along. We've had great fun in the past with dance and yoga lessons, meditation, coloring books, and bubble parties all organized by attendees.
![Photo of a fire ring](/images/naturebridge_firering.jpg "Photo of a fire ring"){:class="img-responsive"}

###### How do I get there? What do you recommend for transportation?

There is ample parking but we strongly recommend you carpool. We usually help attendees self-organize rides in our Slack.

For those coming by plane, your two closest airports are SFO and OAK. NatureBridge is about an hour away from either airport.

For those coming by plane from the east coast, note that timezones are in your favor! We won't be starting the event until 4pm on Friday. If you take a 6am flight out of BWI, you could be in OAK by 9am and have the entire day to explore SF, cycle or hike in the area surrounding the venue, take a surfing lesson at Bolinas Beach, or even give yourself a tour of the local cheese makers! We strongly recommend coordinating and asking for advice on Slack as the time gets closer.

(Reminder: Southwest Airlines does not show up on most flight searches, and they give two free bags - great for if you want to pack that down comforter!)

###### What should I bring?

- Laptop + power supply
- Clothes
- Pillow, sleeping bag, towel
- Earplugs
- Games

Historically weather has been between 40-70°F, so please bring clothes appropriate for the weather. Layers are great.

###### I have more questions!

Please ask away! We'd love to update this page with any missing information.

![Photo of picnic benches by the lagoon](/images/naturebridge_picnic_benches_above_lagoon.jpg "Photo of picnic benches by the lagoon"){:class="img-responsive"}

Please read our [Code of Conduct](/coc.html) prior to attending.

Commit message:

Update incorrect venue info, add photos from 2019

naturebridge.md, after:

---
layout: page
---

### Venue information

2019 Ruby by the Bay will be held {{ site.data.constants.dates.start}} - {{ site.data.constants.dates.end}} ({{ site.data.constants.dates.start_day}} - {{ site.data.constants.dates.end_day}}) at NatureBridge in Sausalito, California.

![Aerial photo of venue next to the ocean](/images/naturebridge_from_above.jpg "Aerial photo of venue next to the ocean"){:class="img-responsive"}

###### What is this beautiful place??

![Photo of NatureBridge signage in front of some of their buildings](/images/naturebridge_sign.jpg "Photo of NatureBridge signage in front of some of their buildings"){:class="img-responsive"}

NatureBridge is a nonprofit that focuses on educating kids about the environment. They have school groups during the school year, and run day camps during the summers.

###### Seriously how is it this beautiful??

NatureBridge is lucky enough to lease their space from the National Park Service. It's housed in Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The campus was originally created by the Army.

###### What will sleeping arrangements be like?

We will be housed in multi-room bunkhouses.  There will be an all-women's, all-men's, and all-gender's room.  

All bunkhouses have shockingly clean bathrooms attached. Toilets are in stalls and showers have curtains. At least one bathroom and shower will be all-gender. Some of the spaces may have (coin-operated) laundry available.

The bunkhouses have hot water and are heated.

While we can't make any promises, we will do our best to accommodate snorers separately.  Please reach out if you have any questions or concerns around the lodging, so we can provide answers and update this page!

![Photo showing off view of the lagoon from the bunks](/images/naturebridge_bunks_and_view.jpg "Photo showing off view of the lagoon from the bunks"){:class="img-responsive"}

Many of the bunks have fantastic views of the outdoors!

**Important note:** The beautiful outdoors includes raccoons which love to break in and steal your food. Please talk with the organizers before bringing any food into the bunkhouse.

We'll provide a bucket of earplugs, though please feel free to bring your own.

There is a small medicines-only fridge available; please talk with the organizers if you need access.

###### How about dining?

![Photo of inside of dining hall. Buffet and several tables.](/images/naturebridge_dining_hall.jpg "Photo of inside of dining hall. Buffet and several tables."){:class="img-responsive"}

Please let us know your dietary restrictions at registration so we can share them with the dining staff. They make many delicious and healthy meals, and while they make no promises they have worked hard to help us accommodate dietary restrictions.

Most meals will take place in the large dining hall. Most of the meals are buffet-style. 
There are many small-group tables and chairs. We'll be sharing the dining hall (and the venue) with one other organization during Ruby by the Bay.

The dining hall includes a small alcove inside if you'd like to be in a slightly more isolated space. Or consider taking your meal on their terrace?

![Photo of dining hall terrace](/images/naturebridge_dining_terrace.jpg "Photo of dining hall terrace"){:class="img-responsive"}

Note: we will not have access to the dining hall outside of mealtimes.

###### Where will we be when we are not sleeping?

We'll be using a few function spaces very close to each other around the small campus. While some of the spaces have single-gendered bathrooms, many of the spaces have all-gender bathrooms.

If you and/or your pair would like to get away, you can always check if wifi will reach some of the outdoor seating spaces!

![Photo of several seats made of stumps in a ring](/images/naturebridge_stump_circle.jpg "Photo of several seats made of stumps in a ring"){:class="img-responsive"}

![Photo of picnic benches overlooking the lagoon](/images/naturebridge_picnic_benches_above_lagoon.jpg "Photo of picnic benches overlooking the lagoon"){:class="img-responsive"}

After dinner, set the coding aside for a little while and get to know your fellow gooders! Use the basketball or volleyball court, play board games, sing karaoke, or pull up a seat at the firering (no promises there won't be a rousing game of Werewolf happening by the fire though!). Have another idea for a fun activity? Bring it along. We've had great fun in the past with dance and yoga lessons, meditation, coloring books, and bubble parties all organized by attendees.
![Photo of a fire ring](/images/naturebridge_firering.jpg "Photo of a fire ring"){:class="img-responsive"}

###### How do I get there? What do you recommend for transportation?

There is ample parking but we strongly recommend you carpool. We will help attendees self-organize rides in our Slack.

For those coming by plane, your two closest airports are SFO and OAK. NatureBridge is about an hour away from either airport.

For those coming by plane from the east coast, note that timezones are in your favor! We won't be starting the event until 4pm on Friday. If you take a 6am flight out of BWI, you could be in OAK by 9am and have the entire day to explore SF, cycle or hike in the area surrounding the venue, take a surfing lesson at Bolinas Beach, or even give yourself a tour of the local cheese makers! We strongly recommend coordinating and asking for advice on Slack as the time gets closer.

(Reminder: Southwest Airlines does not show up on most flight searches, and they give two free bags - great for if you want to pack that down comforter!)

###### What should I bring?

- Laptop + power supply
- Clothes
- Pillow, sleeping bag, towel
- Earplugs
- Games

Historically weather has been between 40-70°F, so please bring clothes appropriate for the weather. Layers are great.

###### I have more questions!

Please ask away! We'd love to update this page with any missing information.

![Photo of picnic benches by the lagoon](/images/naturebridge_picnic_benches_above_lagoon.jpg "Photo of picnic benches by the lagoon"){:class="img-responsive"}

Please read our [Code of Conduct](/coc.html) prior to attending.
